Announce Docker image update (#4098)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2021/02/2021-02-08-docker-base-os-upgrade.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Docker image updates"
tags:
- announcement
- docker
- platform-sig
author: markewaite
opengraph:
  image: /images/docker/dockerJenkins-updated-os-2021-02.png
---

> Beginning with Jenkins 2.279 and Jenkins 2.263.4, the Jenkins project is upgrading the base operating system and Java version used in the `jenkins/jenkins:latest` and `jenkins/jenkins:lts` images.

Reviewer: Java 11 also?

Author: The Java 11 images are already running Debian 10.

For Java 11:
```
$ docker run --rm -i -t jenkins/jenkins:lts-jdk11 cat /etc/os-release
PRETTY_NAME="Debian GNU/Linux 10 (buster)"
NAME="Debian GNU/Linux"
VERSION_ID="10"
VERSION="10 (buster)"
VERSION_CODENAME=buster
ID=debian
HOME_URL="https://www.debian.org/"
SUPPORT_URL="https://www.debian.org/support"
BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugs.debian.org/"
```

For Java 8:

```
$ docker run --rm -i -t jenkins/jenkins:lts cat /etc/os-release
PRETTY_NAME="Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)"
NAME="Debian GNU/Linux"
VERSION_ID="9"
VERSION="9 (stretch)"
VERSION_CODENAME=stretch
ID=debian
HOME_URL="https://www.debian.org/"
SUPPORT_URL="https://www.debian.org/support"
BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugs.debian.org/"
```

The update includes the most recent AdoptOpenJDK 8u282 release and Debian 10 (link:https://www.debian.org/releases/buster/["Buster"]).

> The Java update includes fixes made in JDK 8u252, JDK 8u262, JDK 8u272, JDK 8u275, and JDK 8u282.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Java update includes changes made in JDK 8u252, JDK 8u262, JDK 8u272, JDK 8u275, and JDK 8u282.
```

Reviewer 2: Do all the versions need listing? Seems a bit strange, non blocking

Other Docker images are already using more current operating system releases and Java versions.

image:/images/docker/dockerJenkins.png[Jenkins and Docker, role=center, float=right, height=224]

== Packaging changes

The Jenkins Docker image based on Debian 10 ("Buster") includes some different packages than Debian 9 ("Stretch").
Some packages have been removed because they are no longer supported by their communities.
Some packages have been removed due to infrequent and decreasing use.
Users of the Jenkins Docker images may need to extend their definition of their Docker image to include packages that are no longer included in the base image.

=== SCM packages removed

> The following software configuration management packages are no longer included in the Jenkins controller images for `jenkins/jenkins:latest` or for `jenkins/jenkins:lts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following source control management packages are no longer included in the Jenkins controller images for `jenkins/jenkins:latest` or for `jenkins/jenkins:lts`:
```

* bzr
* mercurial
* subversion

=== Other packages removed

Additional packages that are no longer included in the Jenkins controller images include:

* bzip2
* mime-support
* python (the Python project stopped supporting Python 2 January 1, 2020)
* xz-utils

A detailed list of the exact package changes is available in the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pull/1070[pull request].

See the <<upgrade guidelines,upgrade-and-compatibility-notes>> below for Dockerfile customizations that include those packages.

== Why?

We're changing the base image so that we have a better supported operating system and a more current Java release for Jenkins controllers.

=== Better supported operating system

The Docker images provided by the Jenkins project rely on the operating system security processes of the operating system provider.

Our Docker images have used Debian 9 (link:https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch/["Stretch"])) for multiple years.
Debian 9 security updates have been link:https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch/[discontinued as of July 6, 2020].

> Debian 9 Long Term Support security updates will be discontinued at the link:https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch/[end of June 2022].

Reviewer: Move to the top of the post?

Author: Moved to the top in cf9b6bbf1f94e571d005e5d65783ac763677793d
